# Card Status Fetch App using Gin (Golang Framework and MongoDB (Atlas))

- This small project is developed using Gin (Golang Framework) and  MongoDB Atlas as NoSQL database.

### Some advantages of using Golang framework.
- The primary reason is I am working in node.js and  Golang for a while , and I have experience of migrating spring boot , node.js backend project to Golang framework and acheive better experience in terms of speed ,  build size and build process.

- Golang is compiled into machine code, which means that it runs much faster than interpreted languages like Node.js


### Approach : 

- The Goal of the project is to provide status of the card based on the combined data present in the CSV file.
- The connection is established with MongoDB atlas database. 
- Application will start with loading all the data from csv into the database (MongoDB atlas).
- It will parse the csv files and creating the collection of card in the mongoDB.
- Then endpoint exposed to query the status of the card based on user_id or card_id.
- One additional thing could be done is to schedule the *Cron Job* to get the data from the data folder
  and load into database so that it will fetch the latest status of the card.

- The End point ```get_card_status``` will fetch following four  types of status with timestamps 
  - DELIVERED : card delivered with timestamp
  - PICKED_UP : card picked up with timestamp
  - EXCEPTION : card exception with timestamp and comment
  - RETURNED  : card returned due to exception


- Following the sample response of the endpoint hit with card_id = "ZYW8890"

```JSON
{
    "card status": [
        {
            "card_id": "ZYW8890",
            "user_id": "0534534534",
            "status": "EXCEPTION",
            "comment": "User not available",
            "timestamp": "2023-12-22T04:18:41.492Z"
        },
        {
            "card_id": "ZYW8890",
            "user_id": "534534534",
            "status": "PICKED_UP",
            "comment": "",
            "timestamp": "2023-12-22T04:18:42.412Z"
        },
        {
            "card_id": "ZYW8890",
            "user_id": "971534534534",
            "status": "RETURNED",
            "comment": "",
            "timestamp": "2023-12-22T04:18:43.346Z"
        }
    ]
}


```
### 🧿 Project Goal
<!-- Problem Statement -->

### ⚒ Problem Statement
Create an internal API that would return the status of a user’s card.
We need a service that would combine the data from our partner companies and return the current status of a card when queried for by a team mate.

##
<details>
  <summary>Click to expand</summary>
   
### ✓ Details:

Internally, let’s say we identify a user with their phone number, and for this particular task, let us ignore the country code, and set it to be a 9 digit number. A user’s card has a unique identifier as well, and for this task, we can assume that all entities involved uses the same ID to refer to the card.

Here’s a top level flow of what happens to a card

- Card is generated by us
- Card is picked up by courier partner
- Card is delivered
- If the Card could not be delivered, re-delivery is attempted maximum of two times
- If all attempts of delivery fail, it is returned to us

</details>


### 💡 Local Setup Guide

1. Clone the project

` git clone https://github.com/gauravshinde1816/card_tracker.git`

2. Start backend
   - ` cd card_tracker/`
   - Install Dependancies
   - `go mod tidy`
   - Start server
   - `go run main.go`

4. Use to `http://localhost:8080/get_card_status` to get the status of card using user_id  and card_id.


### 💡 Docker Setup Guide

1. Run `docker-compose up -d`
2. Use to `http://localhost:8080/get_card_status` to get the status of card using user_id  and card_id.

